the first couple of months when I when I
hit my first big client I was really
really really anxious because it was new
to me being responsible for 100 of
thousands of Euros per month in terms of
spend yeah and it felt so responsible
for allocating and spending those
budgets and right now it feels like the
same as an account that is doing 1000
Euros per month in terms of spend
all right it's GM GM everybody welcome
back to the PPC Mastery podcast this one
is a little bit different if you're
watching on YouTube we're not together
in the office today but luckily for us
there's a lot of tech out there that can
help us record this online so in today's
episode we are going to talk about a
question that we got from Thomas Excel
so Thomas Thanks for your question we
have a podcast page on our website Now
ppcmastery.com podcast
where you can find a link where you can
ask questions so if you have a question
for us some podcasts we will try to
answer some of them and today we're
going to be talking about a question
from Thomas Excel and he asked how do
you cope with the typical campaign
performance stress what impact has in
your opinion a sane mental health State
for the campaign performance so in other
words what do we do to maintain good
mental health how do we cope and deal
with stress in PPC because I do think
that ppcs a challenging and stressful
landscape wouldn't you say so
working it could be stressful so if
you're sensitive to these kinds of
stress levels then I think BBC can be a
stressful job yeah especially if you're
running High budgets and have a lot of
stakeholders that you're responsible for
yeah absolutely so yeah let's just let's
just dissect that yeah so let me ask you
the first question miles so let's begin
with how your freelancing days look look
like so you have done full-time
freelancing in the past right now your
week is somewhat split between
freelancing for clients and working for
pipsy Mastery of course to build
Kick-Ass knowledge products but how that
your freelance full-time freelance week
look like a couple of months ago so can
you tell me a little bit more about that
yeah absolutely what kind of day-to-day
tasks and responsibilities that you have
as a Google specialist yeah so yeah as
you said now my week is a little bit
different because I for the majority of
my week let's say 80 or so I'm focused
on PPC Mastery and then 20 for working
for for freelance clients but when I was
still working full-time at agency and
also full-time freelancing my entire day
was structured around working for for my
clients so I usually split my days up in
my morning sessions my morning morning
deep work session and in this morning
session I
find out for myself that in the morning
I have really good Focus I have high
energy and if I can work undistracted on
a few tasks and I can get a lot done in
the first few hours of my day but when I
was working at an agency I had calls in
the morning and other people were sort
of dictating my my work week and that's
not only because I worked at an agency
that's not necessarily their fault but
it was also because I was starting out
and I just wasn't proactive with my with
my week so what then happened was maybe
to jump a jump ahead a little bit in the
morning I was working for a really big
client and on Monday morning we had to
deliver a report for the last week so
that was like I think around 10 in the
morning we had to deliver this this
report yeah all together what an amazing
amazing thing to start of the week yeah
exactly that's what I would recommend
now not to do like do a report that
needs to be done on Monday morning
that's crazy because then we were all
set up for for stress already instantly
because always something goes wrong or
you need a little bit of extra time or
maybe you woke up and and you just
didn't feel like it today and you need a
few hours to get going I mean it's after
the weekend after all so that really
taught me like okay if I'm working for
myself then I want to have a bit more
structure and control in my day in how I
work so now in the mornings I I tend to
do a lot of deep work on bigger tasks
and Analysis and things that I need to
use my brain for and then I have the
afternoons in which I do more like calls
and easy tasks and smaller optimizations
those kinds of things and then they use
the mornings to really focus on the
bigger tasks that I have for my clients
so whatever that is it depends per
client but let's say we need to
restructure an entire account that
usually takes a lot of focus and and
deep work because you need to be
thinking about okay how do we structure
the campaigns the ad groups the the
keywords Etc
and this is then something that I would
typically do in the morning whereas in
the afternoon I will just maybe like go
through the search term reports those
kinds of like smaller optimizations and
then in between I have break where I go
to the gym and I have lunch so usually
my break is around two hours I know
everybody that is working not as a
freelancer but working in-house or an
agency or something I know that this is
sometimes maybe a little bit tricky and
harder to do but if you can work
remotely on the days that you work from
home maybe it's a bit easier to do these
kinds of things but I noticed that for
me working out in between my work shift
so to speak has really helped me yeah
maintain my focus throughout the day
because I noticed that after the morning
session that my brain is fried because
I've done so much of the deep work which
uses a lot of my my brain capacity then
I go to the gym and I'm sort of
recharged instantly and then I have
energy again to to to go back at it and
uh in the afternoon how how did you find
out about your optimal daily routine
because this is something that is
completely different for every single
person some people like to do deep work
in the afternoon or even in the evenings
so how did you find out what your ideal
day looks like yeah that's that was a
lot of trial and error just trying
trying I used a lot of productivity sort
of tools and Frameworks and plannings
and nothing really stuck in the end and
now now I know that okay after trying so
many different things I just noticed
that okay in the morning I'm mostly
productive and I'm not a morning person
at all so it's kind of weird for me but
I do notice that my brain is still at
Max Capacity in the morning because I
haven't checked my phone yet haven't
seen social media I haven't been yeah I
haven't seen anything from anybody else
yet so that that helps but naturally I
am a night owl an evening even evening
person so and that's when you that's
when you're doing no work at all right
because during the evenings you are
chilling with your girlfriend yeah and
maybe play some games exactly family
time right yeah yeah because if I work
in the evening sometimes I do if we have
like a deadline coming up or something
that I want to get get finished
but generally I don't do it because then
I don't sleep well and this is something
that I want to share something about as
well as we go through the through this
podcast but I think living a healthy
lifestyle is really important if you
work in PPC because then naturally you
are much more able to deal with the
stress that comes your way so if you eat
eat healthy sleep sleep well and I know
that if I work until late at night then
my head is just spinning of all the
input and all the ideas and then it's
really hard for me to to fall asleep and
then if I sleep if my sleep is not good
then the next morning I cannot wake up
because it's already hard for me to wake
up not being a morning person and then
it's just a downward spiral
yeah so that that brings me to the
second question because we all have
emotional issues I think to some degree
and well it can be quite challenging for
us as Google as Specialists to handle
all of the pressure of managing the
Google ads campaigns especially when you
have clients or stakeholders with a lot
of high expectations so how do you
handle the emotional ups and downs that
come with campaigns performing above or
below expectations can you share a
little bit more about that that you did
already but yeah yeah absolutely yeah I
think I think this this comes with
experience like you need to go through
it in order to build up systems to be
able to deal with it I think if you're
if you're if you have someone that is
starting out in in PPC or or in in the
work field in general
you need to go through it and you need
to experience those stressors and you
need to know okay this works for me this
doesn't work for me I don't like for me
personally I know that I don't like too
many calls in my week but
when I was not freelancing yet then I
had no no say in that at all so then I
knew okay this is something that I want
to change as I as I move towards
freelancing and it's just it's coming
from experience also the example that I
give gave with the with the report on
Monday morning now I know that if a
client asks me for that then I will I
will push it back and I say no is it
also okay if we deliver on Monday
afternoon or or Tuesday or whatever it
is but I wasn't able to do that when I
was working or when I was just starting
out because I didn't build up that
strength yet in myself to say no to to
dare to say no and then yeah I just
think it comes with experience that's
one side
I think then on the other hand as I said
like live a healthy lifestyle outside of
work because then you are much more
effective at dealing with the stressors
so as I said eat well sleep well train
well all of this helps in in not taking
everything too seriously yeah and a lot
comes with experience as well right
because I still know the moments when I
started to become responsible for a lot
of big monthly budgets that slipped that
went through my fingers basically yeah
so the first couple of months when I
when I hit my first big client I was
really really really anxious because it
was new to me being responsible for 100
of thousands of Euros per month in terms
of spend yeah and it felt so responsible
for allocating and spending those
budgets and right now it feels like the
same as an account that is doing 1 000
Euros per month in terms of spend
because basically in essence it doesn't
really matter because it's still data of
course it's still a lot of spent that
you have to that you have to take care
of and you're that you're responsible
for but during the years and during well
the years of experience you start to you
start to become less anxious be around
those
kinds of things is that something that
you experience as well yeah you cannot
really train for but it just comes by
doing exactly by doing performing the
the work yeah and I think you can always
follow like mental Frameworks in order
to reduce stress and all those things
like you can meditate and there's a lot
of things that you can do to mitigate
the stress levels but I agree with you
it a lot of it comes from experience and
and you just need to go through it in
order to build it up just like when you
go to the gym when you go on day one you
can probably you you recently you told
me you went back into the gym and you
couldn't move your arm like at all right
no no no no no
and now a few weeks later it's easier
for you to do those reps and then your
body builds up the strength to be able
to deal with the stress from the gym
yeah and it's kind of the same work I
feel like like one big Bruce
the next day I was like what's what's
happening
and then they came back the second time
to the gym and I saw this guys hanging
out next to me lifting the 40 kilogram
dumbbells I was like I can't even I
cannot even move them from the from the
from the you know the racks Yeah Yeah
Yeah from the Rex thank you yeah yeah
it's it's yeah the same applies to
Google ads yeah absolutely absolutely
yeah so you have to repeat do it over
and over again until it becomes normal
and just a way of life in essence yeah
so when doing the work Miles because
you've been freelancing for quite quite
a while right now I think that you have
endured high levels of stress during the
same amount of time did you ever felt
like you were burning out or well almost
burning out and what were the signs or
moments when you realized realized you
were approaching a burnout or feeling
overly stressed can you tell me a little
bit more about that yeah for sure and
I'm curious to hear your perspective as
well but um yeah I don't know if I have
reached the limit of almost burning out
but I have it I've seen it happen around
me a lot and that's why I was always
conscious of that I don't want to get a
burnout because if you really get a
burnout like there's different levels to
it you know there's like a first you
feel a little bit of stress and then as
it builds up it builds up then you can
overworked and then the end stage is
sort of the burnout where you just can't
handle anything anymore and I've seen
that my in my family my friends
co-workers and if you get a really like
tough burnout then you can be out of it
for a year plus if it's really bad and I
actually looked up the the definition
for for Burnout it's from MD health or
something like that burnout is a special
type of work related stress a state a
physical or emotional exhaustion that
also involves a sense of reduced
accomplishment and loss of personal
identity whatever the cause burnout can
affect your physical and mental health
and
I've seen cases of people where it was
just too much they couldn't get out of
bed and you you try to give them advice
like I just go on a wall go to the gym
but nothing nothing works and and I
always wanted to prevent that as much as
much as possible but I definitely have
had moments where I've I've felt the
stress building up and it was usually
when you reach like a state of when
you're moving towards burnouts it's
usually when there's too many things
going on all at once at the same time so
work stress and then stress at home
maybe your relationship you have some
issues or maybe something's going on in
family like those things they build up
on each other actually my old manager at
my agency agency agency job he he
switched jobs he moved and then he got a
kid all in like three months or so yeah
and then
burnt out and hadn't seen in in a long
time by then so that's something that I
always want to want to prevent what
about you so so how did you how did you
prevent burning out yeah so I I usually
I I'm really good at observing other
people and then backtracking okay what
what went wrong or what went well for
these for these people and what can I
learn and Implement from that and
I just noticed that there's a lot of
different reasons for burnouts I also
looked that up like reclaim.ai also has
definition and there's some of my own
experience in here as well I will
mention a few like for example long work
days for for management like having a
bad manager people say oh there's a
saying that goes people don't quit jobs
they quit their manager where you have
just poor management not thinking with
you not caring about your development
and not getting paid enough lack of work
life balance having too many meetings
that's definitely a big one for me not
taking enough time off I see that in the
US a lot like it's crazy they have like
10 vacation days per year or so and then
something yeah it's crazy and and sick
days you have to pay and it's crazy
crazy stuff you have to you might have
too many things to respond to for
working conditions overwhelmed by
pressure to perform so a lot of these
things I can I can relate to to these
and then I just see okay
if I already know that I get stressed
from having too many meetings in my week
or after consecutively on the day then I
will just try and okay how can I reduce
the amount of of meetings now I can I
reduce the things that cause me stress
and then on the flip side also do a lot
of things that actually bring me joy and
this is I think when it comes to burnout
people I'll often talk about okay you
should do less of this or or take away
this stressor but if you do something
that you 100 enjoy doing like we do with
PPC Mastery now then you just want to go
for it like 110 every single day and
that can also burn you out because you
might be running sprinting too long for
too for too fast too fast for too long
but generally speaking if you do
something that you really enjoy then
it's harder to get burnt out and that's
what I noticed now in my business
especially when I went freelancing I
instantly felt a lot of the stress like
falling away already and then now with
PPC Master it's it's even on another
level it Sparks Joy yeah for sure
absolutely and what about you have you
had those moments where you were getting
close to to maybe burning out yeah yeah
I haven't luckily I haven't burned out
yeah once and I try to keep keep that
like like like that but I definitely
felt like I was burning out a couple of
a couple of moments in the past few
years so basically when I feel like I'm
burning out my body is giving me signs
yeah so I really really start start to
have problems with my with my shoulders
and with my neck they all get stuck yeah
so when I wake up and when I go for a
walk during the days then when my neck
is starting to hurt and it becomes
really really really stiff then I know
hey something is going on on because all
of the stress that builds up in my in my
body basically consolidates around my
shoulders and my neck so that's the
first sign that I have too much stress
going on and then I obviously try to
look for the source so where where does
it come from and a lot of times it is
work related so what I've done in the
past is to keep a lot of keep three main
pillars in Balance that's the way I how
I look look at things so I have my work
pillar I have my family and friends
pillar and I have my health pillar and
basically you cannot have it all
um I personally find it even difficult
to to keep two of these three pillars
imbalance at the same time but right now
I finally found the balance to work on
all of all of the three combined and I
was a few years back oh yeah a few years
back I I really really went went all in
on work and I really had to drop off the
two pillars family friends and health
related stuff so I didn't work out I
didn't I didn't really move during the
day I didn't spend enough time at family
and friends I was always always working
always busy and that was essentially how
I how I didn't burn out because if I
were to add up friends and family and
the health factor and I wanted to
combine that with work I was definitely
definitely going to burn out because I
was so focused on work I was so focused
on well performing making money making
my clients happy that I really didn't
have time to work on the other things
yeah and now now I know you in the last
month or so I've noticed a big shift for
you you also investing more in your
health where did that come from now
because you as you mentioned you cannot
have all of them time yeah time yeah so
I look I locked myself up during the
full-time freelance period where I
essentially worked
50 60 hours a week maybe even more so I
didn't really had the time to to spend
my time on other pillars or categories
so to say but since we are since we
shifted our Focus towards PPC Mastery we
are both able or we're both able to to
to say goodbye to a couple of freelance
clients right so right now I have
drastically decreased the amount of
freelance work that I currently do I
only work for the the biggest clients
that give me a lot of freedom and really
want to keep me keep me on board where I
can do whatever I want to to bring the
accounts to a higher level so it's
really fun to work on those accounts and
basically by by saying goodbye to a lot
of clients I've freed up a lot of
free time to spend on PPC Mastery and
we're still working hard we're still
delivering products but it is a
different way of working so we are
really our own stakeholders so to say so
we are responsible for the the own
products that we are currently
delivering and the quality and the speed
that we want to to create the products
for and you're not you're not longer you
do no longer have like stakeholders that
are expecting a lot of things from you
expecting you to be there every single
Wednesday for a video call or expecting
you to have a fully worked out
optimization roadmap and that times 15
or times 20 the amount of clients you
have so that basically enables me to
free up a lot of time to spend on the
other two pillars as well health family
and friends so right now yeah I'm really
really starting to work on myself again
and I haven't been doing that for five
plus years yeah because I was so deep in
work do you notice any
yeah differences now that you also
invest in those other pillars
yes I experience way way more rest so if
you do what you like most if you keep
your work week in check yeah the amount
of hours you have to work in check you
really start to experience a lot of well
relief and a lot of rest so to say I do
not feel stressed at all
unless we have a big deadline coming up
and we have to push ourselves in order
to finalize the last couple of details
inside of the products but during the
work week I feel like the calmest I've
ever been yes and I have time to to to
think about work related stuff think
about family related stuff spend my time
towards invest my time more happily in
friends relationships that I really
really enjoy spending time for I have to
I have the time to go to the gym every
single day now that I haven't been doing
for five years at all so yeah I feel
like I feel like a new person yeah
already already I think it will become
even better in there in your future I
would even say that investing in your
health is probably the most important
thing out of those three pillars because
everything falls falls or stands and
falls with with your health the level of
your health so I notice it for myself if
I I go to the gym now every day as well
and sometimes I mix it up go on go for
for a run if I'm really sore or I need
some rest and I might take a rest day of
course but generally speaking now if I
don't go for three days in a row or so
my focus is instantly down my energy is
down my my yeah excitement to get to
work is down so eating healthy working
out sleeping well those are the the key
ingredients to at least
like have the energy to do what you need
to be doing and there's a quote I got it
from Brandon Bashar
he said your body is like a power plant
and in in terms of energy so a power
plant doesn't have energy it generates
energy so if you have something that
generates electricity it builds up the
power because it is actually generating
it's not like the energy is stored
inside it's because it's moving it's
getting the energy it's the same with
your body like the more that you move it
the more you train it to be active the
more energy that you have at the end of
the day and now some people might think
this is crazy but I wake up today I woke
up at 6 15 went for a little walk and
then boom 6 45 I was already working and
deep work focused work now we are
recording these these podcasts after
this I will go to the gym and then I
have my my afternoon block of work and
then around five or so it's done and I
had a really productive day where I was
feeling the energy I was feeling
productive I was feeling proactive
because I'm doing the things that I want
to be doing and then at the end of the
day it's really hard to feel stressed
because you've already done so much yeah
you won the day exactly and I think
that's really important if you talk
about stressing PPC like
of course we have the clients that we're
dealing with and you you I wrote it just
down keyword you said yeah some clients
they expect to report they expect the
big roadmap blah blah but it's also how
you manage those expectations and
sometimes the client says yeah we need
it tomorrow and then you just ask them
okay but but why or is it also okay if
we do it next week or or in two days
three days and often they will just say
yeah okay it's fine like they will just
demand things of you and then you push
it back a little bit and then it's okay
or or the worst the worst that can
happen
is they say yeah we need this report
tomorrow and then you send it and then
crickets you don't hear anything and
then one week later you ask them and
they haven't even checked it yet so
always like push back on those right you
move your meetings for for the day and
you you didn't hang out for sure with
your family or girlfriend that evening
[__] yeah you're stressed yeah yeah
that's terrible so we will do a separate
episode about how to prioritize work and
how to communicate communicate this with
with clients so it could be interesting
to zoom in on that particular part as
well because it's all about
privatization and communicating this
with your stakeholders yeah yeah I have
to I had to learn this the hard way
myself yeah that's just the experience
yeah this experience you need yeah so
Miles as a freelancer or in-house
specialist how do you set boundaries
boundaries with clients or colleagues to
ensure that you have the personal time
and space that you need to win the day a
to spend time with your girlfriend to
spend time with your family to think
about yourself so can you give me a
little bit more information about how
you set boundaries yourself for sure so
the the first boundary that I actually
set for myself is that I don't want to
work with people that I don't enjoy
working with and that's a luxury that we
can afford ourselves with freelancing
especially in this market still the
market is still good for Freelancers
um I decide if I if if I meet someone
for the first time and they request an
audit or they want to work with me then
the first thing that I will check is
just the energy from this person like do
they do they have positive vibes that's
kind of already the first boundary that
I said because if I don't focus on that
then and I just say okay not it it pays
it pays well generates a lot of of
revenue for me but
and they know that in the end maybe it's
going to be way too stressful it's just
not they're not going to be good so
that's the first check that I do already
like okay if if I'm feeling that the
energy is off is bad vibes then I'm not
gonna do it because now that's the most
important one of all of the ones that
you're going to mention I think that's
definitely definitely the most important
one yes because I have had clients that
brought in a lot of cash a lot of
monthly Revenue a couple of thousand
Euros a month but some of them were
horrible to work with they didn't give
you a sense of trust you had to explain
everything within really really really
depth or really detailed before they
were going to trust you with the
proposals you're basically you were
doing so if you do not fight with your
stakeholders it could be a client could
be a manager I think you're in for a bad
bad time yeah for sure you can bring in
loads of money but if you have to work
for toxic people so to say or people
that you know you do not fight with I
think that's a red flag you have to stay
away for sure and you can gauge that by
checking okay is are our values aligned
personally but also in work but also how
they treat their co-workers so if you
are on a call with the business owner or
with the manager and they just treat
their their staff like [__] I've seen
that and now that I say that it's like
nah who Nobody Does that first time you
meet someone but you will actually
notice by the way that they will treat
other people that's ultimately how
they're going to treat you as well so be
be careful with that quote from from
Alex or MOSI look at the way our people
treat service workers in order to see
what kind of people they are yeah so if
they're shitty towards waiters or
winners yeah cleaners whatever then you
can instantly tell what kind of person
it is yeah yeah true everybody yeah yeah
because everybody deserves the respect
no matter what you do it doesn't doesn't
matter then the next one is yeah saying
no often not only to business but also
when you're working with someone train
yourself to say no often and I've I've I
think I've gotten pretty good at this
now like my my default reaction to
everything is a no and then I think
again and okay if I can sell it to
myself if if I see that the idea is good
or it needs to happen then yeah okay I
will do it but now like in people for
PPC Mastery for example we're getting a
lot of requests from people that want to
work with us they want to partner with
us and I'm just saying no to everything
right now because we're so focused on
building the PPC Hub and building our
products that it's all just a
distraction but also in freelance
business when I work with my clients and
they ask for
something and I think it's generally not
a good idea then I will just say say no
and then direct them towards another
solution I I rarely just say no I'm not
going to do it I will always explain
like no and I think this is why we
shouldn't do it or this is why we should
prioritize something else I'm toxic yeah
I'm toxic freelancer
no but I think saying no also can give
you a lot of respect because if you say
yes to everything you become a pleaser
and people will walk over you and if you
say no then people will respect your
boundaries and and because also here's
an example and this one gets me fired up
is when I was working at agency I had a
client and it was actually this wild
story this is this is a client that was
really really really demanding and I was
I think I was working there for one year
so I wasn't experienced yet and I didn't
really know how to deal with these
things I was really Junior
and
I had my vacation I was going to I think
I was going to Bali and it was Friday
and it was my last work day before my
holiday and I think we were flying on
Sunday and on Friday I did all my
handovers to the clients and said okay
this colleague is going to take over
yada yada and I heard nothing from the
client like the entire week I was
emailing calling nothing and then on
Friday afternoon something happened in
the account but it was like five or five
thirty but I was already I already
emailed okay I'm logging off now I'm
done because I had the Friday afternoon
off and now it's my holiday for three
weeks and I'll see you later this is the
person that you need to go to and then
this client was calling me so I picked
up I said no I'm sorry I'm on my
vacation now I don't have my laptop yeah
it's a personal number yes yeah personal
number yeah yeah because we didn't have
work work phones so yeah that's yeah
that's [__] up already oh that was
terrible but it's getting worse so then
I just directed it to my colleague and
then okay have a nice holiday blah blah
then that friend it after the Friday
evening I was going out to a club to a
party and it was 2 30 in the morning and
then my client sent me a WhatsApp
message like we need to fix this now it
was 2 30 in the morning of Friday Friday
night and then I blocked yeah and it was
also my holiday and Friday afternoon 2
30 what the [__] or Friday at night and
then I blocked blocked the number until
I until I came back from a holiday
because I was like I don't want this to
ruin my nice holiday with my girlfriend
and then after I came back then yeah no
no problems it just took took over the
account again and there was just one of
those typical clients that is just I
need this now and blah blah blah and
yeah that's that's the worst so you need
to be careful with those things terrible
so how do you how do you train your
clients in order to prevent this from
happening yeah well definitely open the
conversation about when you are
available for them and I'm I'm
definitely I'm never strict at all with
my clients that I work with now also I
tell them all the time if there's
something on the weekend of course I
will help if there's something in the
evenings of course I will jump in if
it's necessary but if it's not like
really burning and it needs yeah if it's
not urgent and doesn't need attention
right now then we can also do it
tomorrow in the regular workout wait you
can wait so that's something that you
need to communicate to your to your
client like regularly if they do call
you outside of the hours that you have
said that you are available tell them
and why now this is I'm not working
right now I'm with my family and with my
with my kid I see this often and this is
something that I would never want is if
I have a kid and I'm and I'm on my on my
daddy day and I'm out I'm I'm out with
my kid and I get a call from a client
then I'm not gonna take that call I will
tell them I'm with my kid right I will
call you back tomorrow but I see it so
many times like people they will just
they're slave to their to their clients
basically and they say okay I will do
whatever you say but if you tell them I
mean with my kid right now let's figure
it out tomorrow or later at night when
whatever then it's usually is usually
fine but if you don't tell them then
they will just continue to rush over you
yeah so true so true so I I've had some
clients and I right now I have one of
one relatively new client that tries to
Whatsapp me now and then and when that
happens right now the first thing that I
say is please do not WhatsApp me this is
my personal number yeah it is not work
related please use my email so I can
prioritize my emails and well check in
during the times that I check my email
and only call me if something broke down
or you read you need my help right now
but you do not you do not want to sit on
the couch during the eve evenings
checking your WhatsApp your whatsapps
yeah and you see like client Messengers
coming in for hey how is this
optimization going how is this
experiment running I just check check
the results and I think something broke
and we have to zoom in that is giving
you instant stress levels instant so
that's something you want to
teach your clients or teachers
stakeholders not to do so right from the
first moment if you let them do that or
let them cross your borders and you do
not say anything about it they will
continue continuously go over that bound
boundary and you will have a really hard
time
yeah yeah absolutely and yes you said
it's the worst the worst thing that you
can have is that you have your phone and
you're just well checking some WhatsApp
from friends and then you see the client
even just seeing the name of the client
will already bump up your stress level
because you know something is probably
up and that's yeah that's really
annoying and also with these direct
messaging apps like WhatsApp but also
like slack and Discord yeah true people
people think
or have the they really think that you
will be responding in a matter of
seconds minutes or even within two hours
because it's a channel where it is
normally happening that way so if you if
you receive WhatsApp it is generally a
fact that you will respond within two
three hours but that's what I despise
about slack as well people think that is
it that it is an instant messaging
platform and you will respond within the
within a matter of seconds yeah so you
really have to you really have to to to
explain this towards your stakeholders
hey these are working hours I'm checking
my my slack my Discord my email two
three times a day if it's really urgent
call me if you if you just message me in
all of the other platforms I will come
back with you within just 24 hours yeah
that's something that you have to
communicate within the first moments of
well signing a contract for example so
you're set expectations yeah man I
totally agree and I also I don't have
slack on my phone when I work with
clients in slack I do have Discord
but that's a different story like for
our Discord deep sea Mastery Discord and
our own deck Discord for us like I don't
care if you send a message at 11 at
night then then it's totally fine but I
don't want to see slack messages from
clients that that late at night and and
I'm work in my working hours I'm with my
laptop so I just check it on my laptop
always same with email although I also
try to limit the conversations in email
with my clients and just say let's take
this to slack or bigger updates we can
do email but I also hate just emailing
back and forth and that also definitely
helps with reducing stress like having
less time that you need to be spending
on those platforms like email Etc
through so zoom in on on on support
systems and tools do you use specific
support systems tools to keep you in
check so let's say you're planning your
week you're prioritizing your work what
kind of tools apps or Technologies do
you use or recommend that help you
streamline your work and therefore
reduce stress and or manage your time
better
yeah I I I've tried a lot of different
things like I said I really I built a
nice custom Excel template when I was
working with 10 plus clients and then at
Excel I would have different colors for
the clients and look at this hour I'm
doing that for the but I I noticed that
I'm way too chaotic to stick to it so
now I just uh I'm old school I have pen
and paper that I use I use notion for to
keep track of the tasks that I need to
do and that's just about it when it
comes to productivity systems because
Dicky Bush also said like productivity
systems are often just distractions or
ways to keep you away from the thing
that you actually want to or need to be
doing and yeah I just it now it helps
like when I start my day I just think
about okay what do I need to do today
and then I write it down on my on my
piece of paper and then when I'm done
with it I just strike through and then I
know it's it's done and then I keep
track of that like the bigger tasks in
in notion but you can make that as as
simple or complex as you want but I try
to try to keep it really simple uh
something you you you work out for
yourself every single morning or do you
do it in the evenings prior to the day
what I like to do now on Sundays if I
have time if I if I'm just busy doing
other stuff on Sunday then I will do it
a Monday morning but usually on Sunday I
will just map out my week I look I start
first by looking at my calendar let me
just pull it up see what it says now
then I see I have my gym blogs planned
out so gym plus plus break that's
actually the first thing that I that I
make sure that I plan because otherwise
I there's a chance that I don't do it
then I check okay what meetings do I
have and then around that what is the
what are the project that I need to do
right now for my clients for PPC Mastery
and then I yeah sometimes I schedule
them on the days depends sometimes I
don't and then I just look at day per
day what is the most important thing
right now and then every morning before
I start I just write it down on my in my
in my note notebook that I have like
piece of paper the top three are top
five things that I want to do that day
and then work from there so basically
sounds really simple basically super
simple yep how about you anything else
yeah so I like to use notion as well to
prioritize my work so I've created a
specific notion kanban board for every
single client that basically keeps track
of all of all of the things that are in
a backlog that are in progress that are
blocked that are completed and yeah some
some other customer related questions
coming in that I have to come back at so
that's how I like to keep track of
everything that needs to be done
then I like to work in calendar blocks
so I have a really structured day and a
really systematic way of working and
planning so that's something that I
learned at my last agency that I worked
with we had a great great project
manager and she she actually planned the
work for us in blocks of at least two
hours within a day so some clients had a
block of two hours some had a block of
four hours well and it was basically
decided on the amount of hours they were
they paid for so obviously so then she
planned those blocks for you yeah she
Blended she Blended for all of the
Google ad Specialists so basically we
didn't we didn't have to plan at all we
just started our days and we we knew
what clients to work on and within those
blocks of course we had our own
prioritization and we had to decide
where to work on but we knew what client
to work on and during the blocks we we
could not be distracted by the sales
team by incoming calls she picked up the
phone and she said okay Bob is working
for a different client right now but he
has you planned over two days is it
urgent yes then I will I will redirect
you to to Bob Newhall answer phone if
not he will call you back in two days so
that was the the best work week I ever
had working for a business and everyone
was basically happy
so right now I still use that the system
so when a new client comes on board I
instantly tell when I'm going to work
for the account and when I am reachable
so for example right now I have a bigger
client that I'm working every single
Monday afternoon for for about two or
three hours they know that I'm working
on the account every single Monday
afternoon so if they want to go with me
if they want to sit down if they want to
discuss results if there's something
urgent they know they can they can reach
me on Monday afternoon between 1 and 1
and 4 so to say if an email with a
request is coming in on a Wednesday or
Thursday they know that I will pick up
the mail or the request the next Monday
yeah and that's something that I made
really really clear during the
onboarding phase and by implementing
that inside of my work week that gave me
so so so much rest and basically set the
boundaries for for all of the clients
that I work with and then so let's say
they have a request on Wednesday and
then you say okay I I will do it on
Monday then you you said you made that
really clear in the onboarding process
of how you work and they were just fine
with it they understood yes yeah yeah
and if not they have a problem and they
have to find someone else
that's just how it works yeah it's just
setting the expectations then and then
it's okay because if you didn't to be
real clear yeah if you didn't do that
then they will send you something on
Wednesday and you will say I will pick
it up on Monday and they're like what do
you mean on Monday I need it now I need
it this week but now you already have
the agreements you have the expectations
in place and then that's that's really
nice man that's actually right and it's
easy to explain because I always explain
it like hey I have other clients as well
other stuff to do I want to give
everyone the attention it needs so if
I'm working for a different client and
then a request from you is coming in
then you as a client wouldn't wouldn't
wouldn't be happy if you were to switch
accounts and were to work for a
different client ins inside of a blocked
calendar meeting that meant to be
allocated towards different clients so
by explaining it that way almost
everyone understands it yeah yeah that's
that's really solid yeah and for me also
support systems in terms of community or
people of course like every day I go for
walks with my girlfriend girlfriend in
the during breaks after work and that
helps settle it down of course like
family you can we can talk about
anything that we the stresses that we go
through and the community Discord
community and the PPC Hub they are also
nice because then sometimes if something
happens you can just yeah rant a little
bit and then like something stressful
happens in your day you just tell people
this happened stupid this stupid that
blah blah and then you're you're then
it's gone so that also helps to stress
relief
exactly so looking at the time miles let
me ask you one final question yeah what
would be your advice for newbies people
just starting out in Google ads working
for for themselves or even in-house what
would you advise them in a couple of top
five points so the first one is
definitely take care of your health so
invest in good sleep well is probably
the most important one eat well drink
enough water work out go outside a lot
like not not only go to the gym once but
also throughout the day make sure that
you go outside for walks because then
that helps to keep your brain and your
body fresh let's see more advice for
newbies take time off frequently and
that means on the macro level take
holidays for some people this sounds so
obvious but some people almost never do
it so take your holidays on the micro
level that means taking short breaks
every day and do not bring your laptop
on those holidays yeah yeah that is a
game changer for sure you've noticed
that right oh yeah yeah so my first
holiday
without laptop was essentially
three months ago two months ago yeah
so in the last couple of five six years
I always had my laptop with me every
single holiday it was last month it was
in July oh yeah
yeah six weeks or so it feels feels like
it feels like two months already I know
but then on the micro level like short
breaks every day make sure that you
don't sit behind your computer for eight
hours straight but go outside do some
stretching those kinds of things only do
work you enjoy and I know that if you're
starting out then this is sometimes you
just have to swallow it swallow the pill
in order to get where you want to be and
then yeah sometimes you need to suck it
up but also sometimes you should say no
and and and and and and
sort of fight back for what you what you
want so at to give you an example from
when I started at an agency of course
they gave me my first couple of clients
I had no say in what they what they were
but I already knew that I wanted to get
Ecom clients so from the first couple of
one-on-ones that I had with my manager
with my mentor I already said yeah my
goal is to work with Ecom clients and
then
they said yeah now you have your
portfolio we cannot give you extra e-com
clients right now but maybe maybe later
then the next one I will just after
think out a weekly or a monthly meeting
with my manager and every every meeting
I was going to say call but then it was
all physical still every meeting I would
just say yeah it's still my goal to do
Ecom if there's anything opening up let
me know and then she would say no not
right now but maybe later and then every
time I would say it until they were
became became so annoyed that they would
just give me give give me e-com clients
and then in the end I got I got g-star
and all the other ones that I was
working with back then so not because
they thought I was annoying like okay we
can shut them up but also because
sometimes people need to know what your
goals and Ambitions are and then they
can help you once it starts to open up
like sometimes of course it's not
possible to to give you what you want
straight away and you need to prove
yourself as a junior but as I did that
and then let's say one year one and a
half years into my job at the agency I
was having the portfolio that I wanted
from the beginning with really like nice
nice clients that I learned a lot from
so and then after you get more
experience you can start to focus more
on the things that you actually want to
do and that you actually do enjoy or for
at least let's say 80 or so
and don't take no for an answer just
always keep pushing for for where you
want to and for what you want and where
you want to end up and [__] everyone who
tells you no
yeah and if and if you and if you do not
get what you want then
their other employers as well yeah
exactly you can go other directions so I
think the last thing is just when it
comes to dealing with stress in PPC it's
like get the Reps in and I don't mean
the Google reps but just the repetitions
like you would in the gym because
thriving in PPC is just a game of reps
and the more
things that you see more clients that
you work with the more problems that you
encounter The more stress that you will
experience the better you will be at
dealing with that with those things as
you as you get more experience so
great final takeaway
cool so that's it I hope you you enjoyed
the podcast I think you dropped a lot of
knowledge bombs in this episode miles
and so for everyone starting out I think
this is a great podcast to to listen to
so in the next episode or one of the
future episodes we don't do not know
when to when this will be scheduled we
will zoom in on prioritizing your work
and how to well plan your day how to
plan your week what to prioritize what
kinds of optimizations What kinds of
work so I'm really looking forward to to
discuss that as well so yeah any final
words Mouse yes so thanks to Thomas for
his great question if you have a
question for us just head over to
ppcmastery.com podcast and then there's
a link where you can ask your submit
your questions and yeah I'm sure that in
some episodes we'll use some of those
questions try to answer answer some of
those for you guys and yeah that's it so
thanks for watching if you're viewing on
YouTube we appreciate it and don't
forget to like And subscribe and we'll
see you in the next episode
see ya ciao
[Music]